The ISS "Status Symbol" : she was my pride, my own 
hard-earned interstellar destroyer. I cherished her 
like a medal of honor : a metallic proof of my 
outstanding service record. A mile-long spacefaring 
medal of honor that could rain down genocide on 
lesser species.

Her corridors were dark, and her heavy doors opened 
with a distressing hiss. Against the opinion of my 
engineers, I had large fans mounted in front of 
every ceiling light, so that they would cast a 
rotating fan-shaped shadow on the floor below. The 
crew did not quite enjoy that, but well-lit 
corridors lend themselves to Opera-class scenarios, 
and I would rather have Horror-class scenarios on 
my ship, thank you very much.

Besides, they had been warned. Everyone knew I was 
Lawrence Braxton, the imperial expert on 
Horror-class scenarios. Everyone knew about my 
academy thesis on [Alien](is a movie by Ridley 
Scott) and [Dead Space](is a video game by EA 
Redwood Shores), two major Templates from Old 
Earth culture. Would they expect the Status Symbol 
to have white paint, bright lights and hydroponic 
flower beds ? Nonsense.

That day-cycle, I was glad the lights were dim. Last 
night's tactical meeting with a bottle of New Earth 
Whiskey had left me with a weapons-grade hangover. 
Dealing with Lieutenant Alex Bronsky while in that 
state was hard enough without bright lights shining 
on me. 

Ever-resentful Lieutenant Alex was not a fan of our 
_modus operandi_. Nuking entire species off the 
surface of their planet, he thought, was a tad too 
much on the barbaric side. Of course, most cadets 
thought the same in their first year at the academy. 
They thought alien sentients could be negotiated 
with. They hoped that if we could only look beyond 
the grey skin and the oozing tentacles and the 
disgusting mandibles, we could find inter-species 
friendship. This is why their first month at the 
academy included a mandatory screening of 
[Avatar](is a movie by James Cameron) : it usually 
drove the point home that the only safe way to deal 
with alien species is annihilation from orbit. 

But the Lieutenant either skipped that screening, 
or was too thick to understand its message. I 
needed to teach him that lesson the hard way. He
was to reach planet Sol IV, and follow the genocide 
procedure to the letter, while I celebrated our 
impending victory by applying enough privacy and 
alcohol to my person. 

Now, the celebration was over, and I stepped onto 
the bridge looking as sharp as my earlier pickling 
would allow.

"Captain." said Alex, saluting me.

His face had the standard issue "I am sorry" 
expression I had become so familiar with over the 
years. But this time, it had a vague sprinkle of 
"Oops" as well.

"What is it, Lieutenant ?"

He fidgeted. Seeing him, a tall muscular brute in 
a wide-shouldered Space Superiority uniform, 
fidget like a child nearly worsened my headache. 
Not waiting for an answer, I looked at the huge 
screen : it showed a planet riddled with craters. 
The trademark craters of our Singularity warheads. 
All signs of life had been wiped out. Alex did a 
surprisingly thorough job. The enemy looked like 
an early spacefaring species, but even their small 
settlement on their moon had not been spared. 

Wait. 

"What's going on ?" I asked. "Sol IV should have 
two moons." 

The dose of "Oops" on his face increased tenfold.

"This... is Sol III."

I did my best impression of a facepalming 
spaceship captain.

"Never mind. You wasted some warheads, but there 
should be enough for at least one more planet-wide
strike. Get to Sol IV now and wipe it out while I 
watch."

His attitude shifted from guilt to surprise.

"But what of the inhabitants of Sol III ? We 
killed them for no reason."

"Don't say _we_ killed them. You're the one who 
gave the order. Man up and take responsibility.
But don't worry. If they were sentients, they 
would have gone down soon anyway, so you just 
rushed their end by a few days. What did they 
look like ?"

"I don't know."

"What do you mean, you don't know ? Surface 
inspection is a mandatory part of the standard
genocide procedure. Did you skip that ?"

"Yes."

I facepalmed again. I had plenty of adjectives 
in mind, but none of them would fit the aura of
respectability that a captain ought to be 
shrouded in. Instead, I turned to the log data 
engineer. 

"Whitford. Bring up the fleet activity log for 
Sol III."

"Yes, sir."

"When was it scheduled for genocide ?"

"Eleven day-cycles ago, sir. Captain Mishimoto had
the Bloody Geodesic carpet-bomb the planet with 
neutron warheads. Genocide report mentions a few
billion ape-like sentients. All destroyed."

"Then why were there still lifeforms on the 
surface ?" 

"Team Gamma of the Terraformer's Guild arrived on 
the planet seven day-cycles ago."

For a few seconds, I balanced between fear and 
anger. Then, I figured Lieutenant Alex would take 
care of the fear, so it was only fair that I take 
care of the anger. 

"Bronsky, you idiot ! You nuked the Guild's men !
Do you have any idea what they are going to do to
us once they learn about it ?"

I admit, expecting a coherent answer out of the
Lieutenant was a bit too extreme at that point. 
At the very least, I had hoped for him to remain 
conscious, but he seemed bent on disappointing me, 
and so he fainted right away.