Lieutenant Bronsky woke up ten minutes later in the 
infirmary. By then, I had issued an all-encompassing 
gag order to prevent anyone else from learning about 
our situation. Gag orders seldom end well, 
especially in Horror-class scenarios, but I needed 
some time to think of a way out.

"Are you feeling all right, weakling ?"

"Yes, captain."

The infirmary looked like a morgue. I liked that. 
The crew didn't. Bronsky sat motionless on the edge 
of the steel bed. For a second, I thought it looked 
like a chopping board, and wished I had a cleaver 
handy. But this was no time for letting off steam. 

"Are you happy with what you have done ?"

"No, captain."

"Are you willing to take the blame for what 
happened ?"

He looked desperate, but the mushroom cloud over 
his life seemed to have a silver lining.

"If I may, sir, I would very much enjoy to bring
you down with me."

"You were the one who punched the button in front
of the wrong planet !"

"You were the one in charge. Why did you not stop 
me ?"

"I trusted you !"

"Trust ? No. You predicted that I would not create 
too many problems for you, and acted accordingly."

I knew Bronsky was a smart man. I had read his 
file many times already. But it still felt 
surprising to see him act like one. If our 
higher-ups learned that our bombs killed members 
of an Imperial Guild, it would not matter who gave 
the order : every single crew member would be 
executed. 

"I want to save our lives." I whispered.

"How ?"

"We should say someone else did it."

"But who ?"

"I was thinking of the sentients on Sol IV. Forge 
the report to make them look dangerous, then go 
along with the genocide to wipe out any evidence to
the contrary."

"How would that explain the Singularity warhead 
craters ? Any idiot would notice that."

"Watch your mouth, Bronsky. Even though we are both 
dead men walking, I am still your captain." 

"Yes, sir. I apologize."

He did not look apologetic at all. His eyebrows 
were flexed, his teeth clenched, and his gaze 
wandered off somewhere above my right shoulder. I 
could not tell whether he was angry, or thinking 
hard about our life-and-death situation.

The lights flickered. I had asked the engineers to 
make the lights flicker every so often. It added 
to the atmosphere. 

"If I may, captain..."

"Please, speak your mind. Politely."

"There is no doubt that our weapons killed the 
Guild members. Any decent investigator would 
figure that out. Our only chance is to make it 
look like we had to bomb Sol III even though 
there were Guild members there."

"Are you thinking of a Puppetteer-class scenario ?"

He nodded. It made sense, in a way : if we could 
somehow prove that the Guild expedition was 
mind-controlled by aliens, then executing them 
from orbit would be following the protocol to the 
letter. 

"What kind of scenario did you have in mind ?"

"Something noticeable from orbit during the surface 
inspection. An infestation scenario would be best, 
like [Starcraft](is a video game by Blizzard) or 
[Half-Life](is a video game by Valve), but we'd 
need an infested body as proof, and have no means 
to create one."

"What about a neural interface glitch ? All Guild 
members wear brain coprocessors." 

"How is that noticeable from orbit ?"

I refused to admit a fatal flaw in my plan. Not in 
front of him. Time to answer a question with 
another question :

"Why would we run a surface inspection on a planet 
being terraformed by the Guild, anyway ? The 
obvious course of action would be to just contact 
them..."

"Which would give the rogue AI a vector to attack 
us as well, only we don't use neural interfaces, so 
it would only be able to take down our computer 
systems !"

"Yes ! And wipe our logs as well, along with any 
evidence !" 

"Do you have the access credentials to wipe the 
central computer ?" 

"Of course. Easy like clearing a browser history."

Bronsky gave me a puzzled look. For a Space 
Superiority officer, he was exceptionally 
ignorant about Old Earth idioms.

"I mean, it's easy." I clarified. "Friend 
Computer !"

Bronsky did not get that reference, either. 
Everyone could play Old Earth video games and 
watch Old Earth movies, but it took quite some 
motivation to read Old Earth books, and 
role-playing game manuals were even worse. 

"Yes, captain ?" came a synthetic female voice 
from the infirmary's intercom. 

"This is an executive order. Erase all logs for 
the last ten hours, including this order, roll 
back your internal clock five hours, and crash."

The dim lights dimmed even more, then turned off 
altogether. After a few seconds, everything was 
back on.

"Friend Computer !"

"Yes, captain. Apologies, I seem to have 
suffered a system crash for unknown reasons."

"Don't worry about that. Please advance your 
internal clock five hours."

"Yes, sir. Anything else ?"

"That will be all."

I looked at Bronsky. He was relieved, a huge 
smile on his face. I wanted to smile, too, but my 
headache had not yet faltered.

We walked back to the bridge. The officers were 
in a panic about the main computer crash. Of 
course they would notice ! The rest of the crew 
never interacted with the computer at all, and 
probably only ever noticed the lights switching 
off and on again as part of the hard reboot 
procedure. For all they knew, the computer could 
have been offline for five hours without them 
noticing. But the bridge officers would need some 
convincing.

"Captain !" called out Whitford, the data officer. 
"The main computer appears to have gone down for a 
short while. We are still investigating the 
issue."

"Don't worry, Lieutenant Bronsky has explained 
everything to me in detail."

"Explained ?" asked Dumont, the navigation officer. 

"Yes. He did not want me to tell you, but I believe 
you are all strong enough to stomach the truth. He 
explained to me how he established contact with the 
Terraformer's Guild settlements on Sol III, and 
determined their neural interfaces were infected 
with an AI virus that the neutron bombing failed to 
wipe out. As per the standard protocol, he executed 
settlers from orbit. Once he told me about that, I 
found it prudent to wipe the main computer memory 
as well, just in case it had been contaminated."

Bronsky nodded, trying to look as ashamed. The crew 
members exchanged puzzled looks. 

"Sir," said Dumont again, "Earlier, it certainly 
looked like Sol III had been bombed by mistake."

"By mistake ?" I answered "Most certainly not ! 
Besides, had the settlers not been infected with 
that AI virus, our actions against the Guild would 
be enough to have us all executed, including 
yourself. So, I really am glad Lieutenant Bronsky 
did not commit a mistake."

"You're right, Sir. My mistake. The Guild settlers 
really were infected."

"Good man."

I turned to Wagner, the communications officer. 

"Please write down everything I just told you as 
a standard report, and be ready to send it to the 
Terraforming Guild headquarters."

He started typing. A few minutes later, two clean 
paragraphs of lies and misdirection ended up on my 
heads-up display. I read them thoroughly, scared 
of missing a detail that could give it all away, 
but found nothing.

The reply came an hour later. 

"We understand the circumstances and thank you for 
your intervention. Our orbital sensors detect a 
survivor on the surface. Please retrieve him and 
deliver him intact to our headquarters as soon as 
possible."