Officers were quite clever, but the rest of the crew 
consisted mostly of idiots. I could not afford them 
to come into contact with the Terraformers' Guild 
survivor. Not that I expected them to find out about 
our subtle plot : I would not even trust them to 
find a plot in a spreadsheet application ; but once 
we made the hyperspace jump back to headquarters, 
everyone on the Status Symbol would be interviewed 
by Guild investigators, and I would rather not have 
my crew know any relevant details about what 
happened.

But still, having a surface-bound shuttle manned by 
officers only would sound just as suspicious. So I 
picked a handful of crew members that I 
particularly disliked, fully intending to have some 
tragic accidents happen before we came back.

I never had any qualms about killing off my own men. 
But Bronsky did, and it only took a quick glance at 
the rescue mission roster for him to understand my 
plan. He shook his head with a sad look on his face. 

Then, his entire body started shaking. The shuttle 
had just entered the atmosphere of Sol III. We were 
strapped to infantry seats in the cargo bay, sealed 
off from the cockpit. Outside the many round 
windows, we could only see the bright orange flash 
of re-entry. After a minute, everything turned 
quiet, and we could see a blue sky stretching from 
horizon to horizon.

Looking outside, I felt calm and happy.

It was as if, hidden deep within our genetic code, 
there was a rule about feeling calm and happy on 
worlds with blue skies. I always felt that Old 
Earth, wherever it was right now, must have had a 
blue sky back when humans still lived there. 
That's how it looked like in the movies, anyway.

Whereas the azure heavens gave off a peaceful 
feeling, the planetary surface bore unmistakable 
traces of Singularity warheads going off. Entire 
stretches of land had been ripped away by the 
miniature black holes, and looking at the 
miles-deep craters around us, it was obvious how 
the gravitational ripples of the Singularity 
bombing had messed up the geological make-up of 
Sol III's crust.    

If anyone had survived that, they must have stood 
as far as possible from any warhead going off. 
Which, obviously, was not where we were headed.

"Pilot, why are we flying towards that crater ? 
We should be searching for the survivor."

"Aye, captain. The survivor is down there."

"There's no way we could find a survivor in the 
kill zone of a Singularity warhead."

"That's not what the sensors say, captain."

It made no sense. But a genuine sensor failure 
would be a great excuse for not finding any 
survivors.

"Very well, go on."

It took a few minutes to reach the hypocenter of 
the warhead crater, where the survivor was 
supposedly hiding. With a whistle of compressed 
air, the landing gear came out, and we were 
shaken one last time before coming to a complete 
stop. 

Atmosphere checks came back positive : much to 
my disappointment the air was breathable. Oxygen 
supply accidents were the most common, and most 
easily faked. I would have to resort to the less 
common "geological mishap" or "roll call 
omission" excuses for leaving crew members behind. 

I hoped that we would not find the survivor. In 
the middle of a desolated crater, strewn with 
shredded bits of metal and assorted body parts, 
I fully expected to find no survivors.

But there she was, unscathed.

She looked quite similar to a human female, though 
her clothing was alien and her speech sounded 
nothing like a civilised language. For a short 
while, I feared an Amazon-class scenario : I would 
rather fail a mission than bed an alien sentient. 
My dignity would settle with nothing less than 
that.

It turned out that the female was more interested 
in blabbering nonsense than in seducing me. I felt 
relieved. 

"What do you think she's trying to tell us ?" I asked.

"I have no idea, captain." answered Bronsky.

"I wish this was [A Hitchhiker's Guide to the 
Galaxy](is a book by Douglas Adams) or even 
[Farscape](), and we could understand her language 
with a fish or a shot."

"Maybe if we spent less time trying to obliterate 
all the sentients we find, our technology would have 
reached that point."

"Touché, lieutenant."

She was a survivor, no doubt about that, but she 
did not look like a Terraformer's Guild member. Her 
clothes looked unusually primitive : blue trousers 
from an organic material that showed signs of wear, 
and a grey top that seemed too loose. A far cry 
from the all-synthetic, auto-fitting clothing that 
all citizens of the Human Empire wore. 

And if she was no Guild member, there was no reason 
to be afraid, no secret to murder my own crew over. 

"Is this the survivor ?" I asked.

"Aye, sir." answered the pilot. 

"Very well. Put her in the shuttle, we're going 
back up."

She would spend a few hours in a holding cell, and 
then be transferred to wherever the Guild wanted 
her to be ; and I could forget everything about 
this mess and move on to wiping out sentients from 
Sol IV.

Two crew members stepped forward and grabbed her 
arms. She cried and writhed, but still had to 
follow them. As they pulled her past me, I caught 
a glimpse of her back. 

On the back of her shirt, there was a crest. A 
simple drawing of a human-like face next to a pair 
of scissors. I was probably the only one aboard 
the Status Symbol able to recognise that face. The 
long dark hair, the hidden eyes, the distorted 
proportions, the beautiful smile all hearkened back 
to a forbidden piece of Old Earth culture. A 
drawing of [Urabe](is a character from Mysterious 
Girlfriend X, a manga by).
