The dreary atmosphere of the Status Symbol had taken 
its toll on the female survivor's morale. Dark 
corridors, dim lights, heavy doors that opened with 
scary noises. Her cell was probably the worst : 
dripping water, chains mounted to the ceiling, 
flickering lights ; from my analysis from [Alien](is 
a move by Ridley Scott) such a room was the ideal 
battleground in a Horror-class scenario, and I had 
made sure to place it in the bunker-like 
penitentiary block.

But the prisoner this time was no drooling, 
black-skinned, long-tailed murder machine : she 
was a human female and a fan of an Old Earth 
manga. Not that I could mention the latter out 
loud : after the great cultural purge, mere 
knowledge of that specific manga was grounds for 
execution. 

I entered the cell with Lieutenant Bronsky on my 
heels. It was against standard procedures to 
interrogate a prisoner alone, and if the topic of 
forbidden Old Earth lore came up in the 
conversation, he was the only one I could trust. 
Assuming, of course, that I could find a way to 
hold a conversation with her.

The door closed shut, leaving the three of us alone. 

"Computer, disable recording for cell 23." I called 
out loud.

"Yes, captain." came a female voice from the 
intercom.

Bronsky looked at me and raised an eyebrow. 

"You, I trust." I answered, hoping he would 
understand.

The survivor was huddled in a corner, watching us 
with the wide eyes of a kitten that just heard a 
loud noise.

"Hello !" I said.

No answer came. It was obvious, from our earlier 
encounter, that she did not speak the Standard 
Language, and that I could not understand whatever 
language she did speak. I turned to Bronsky.

"Take off her top and bring it to me." 

"Yes, captain."

He moved unhesitatingly. Soldiers like us had no 
knowledge of the female mind and body. We had no 
reason to know that women find it shameful to be 
seen topless. Of course, I knew. I had a 
collection of forbidden Old Earth artifacts that 
could get me killed a thousand times over, and 
from those I learned all that I knew about women.

I recognized the shame in her screams, the 
vibrato of her "IIIEH!" (did all women shout this 
as they were forcibly undressed ?) and the way 
she covered herself with her left forearm. 

I understood the surprise in her eyes as the 
aggressive Bronsky, having just taken off her 
shirt, stopped cold in his tracks and gave me the 
gray piece of cloth. For a second, she had thought 
she knew what we wanted from her. And now, once 
again, she was completely lost.

I crouched in front of her so that our eyes would 
be on the same level, leaving a safe distance 
between us, and I pointed at the drawing on the 
back of her shirt.

"Urabe Mikoto." I said. Then I pointed at me. 
"Braxton Lawrence." Then at the Lieutenant. 
"Bronsky Alex." Then at her, putting on the best 
standard issue interrogative face I could muster.

She stood there, wide-eyed, still covering herself. 
Slowly, she pointed at chin with her right hand.

"Ishimura Katsumi."

"Ishimura ?" asked Bronsky. "Isn't that the space 
ship in [Dead Space](is a video game by EA Redwood 
Shores) ?"

"It means Rock Village in Old Earth Japanese." I 
answered.

"Old Earth what ?"

"A language that was spoken by humans on Old 
Earth."

"How do you know that ?"

"I'm the imperial expert on that video game 
franchise. Of course I would know that."

"So what does it mean ?"

"I guess she might speak Old Earth Japanese. 
Lend her your headset."

I gave her the shirt back, and she put it back on 
hurriedly, facing away from us. I grabbed the 
headset and approached her calmly. She seemed 
to recognize its purpose, and let me put it 
around her ear. She was tense and her skin was 
soft.

"Friend Computer !" I said. "Please enable 
real-time translation, using Old Earth Japanese 
semantics, for the Bronsky headset."

"What era ?" came back the voice.

"Crisis era, I guess."

"Real-time translation enabled." 

I cleared my throat. 

"Hello, Ishimura Katsumi."

She listened and smiled and almost cried. 

"Hello, mister Braxton." came the answer. "Where 
am I ?"

"On board the ESS Status Symbol, an interstellar 
destroyer. I am her captain."

"This is a spaceship ?"

"It is."

"Are you aliens ?"

If she was alien to us, then we would certainly 
be aliens to her. But now that I had uncovered 
her language, she looked more like a stranded 
time traveller. 

"We are human. The year is 1322."

As I said those words, I felt like an idiot. If 
she did come from the Crisis era, she wouldn't 
know about our calendar. From her blank stare, 
she obviously did not.

"In your calendar, this would be the year 3338." 
said Bronsky. 

"You know the Old Earth calendar ?" I asked.

"No. But I do know [2001 : a Space Odyssey](is 
a movie by Stanley Kubrick) was set in Old Earth 
year 2001, and the Crisis happened fifteen years 
after that. Just do the math." 

I nodded. She had not said anything yet. She did 
not even look at us. I waved my hand in front of 
her eyes. 

"Is this... a joke ?" she asked.

"I'm afraid not." 

"I want to go back."

"We don't even know what happened. How you ended 
up here."

She looked up at me. I saw tears rolling down her 
round cheeks. This is probably the moment when I 
fell in love with her. 

"I had a life. I had family, and friends. I was 
about to graduate from college. I had finally 
started going out with my first boyfriend. I want 
that back. Please."

"I'll do everything I can."

Bronsky looked at me without a word, trying to 
ascertain whether I was a liar or an idiot. She 
was the survivor that the Terraformers' Guild had
asked us to find. We were one hyperspace jump away 
from handing her over to them. A short while ago, 
I would have sacrificed anything and anyone just 
to stay alive ; now I would take on the world just 
to make her happy. Maybe this was because she was 
the first real woman I met, or maybe the countless 
banned Old Earth books I read made me feel like 
this. 

"She is not a member of the Terraformers' Guild. We 
will keep her on board until we figure out how we 
can send her back."

"You'll get us killed !" Bronsky snapped.

"You're always the one complaining that all our 
fights involve planetary genocide. I have found 
something new to fight for. Shouldn't you be 
happy ?"

"I would rather be alive than happy."

"You're a coward."

"And until right now, so were you. I am very 
disappointed in you, captain."

"I don't care. Get out of here."

"This is against standard protocols."

"I don't care about the protocols, about the 
Guild, or about the shaking of your knees. 
Katsumi is innocent. Do you have any idea what 
will happen to her if the Guild get their dirty 
hands on her ? Or any Imperial bureaucrat, for 
that matter."

"You killed three billion sentients this week 
alone, and all of them were innocent !" 

You said that just to make me look bad, didn't 
you ? 

"She's human, Bronsky."

"You don't usually mind killing humans, either."

Don't say that in front of her, you idiot ! 

"Get out of here. This is an order."

He stood there for a few seconds, then walked 
out of the cell. 