She was afraid. Of me. After what Bronsky had said, 
this was only natural. I had billions of sentient 
deaths to my name. Until a few minutes ago, that 
was my pride, my life's accomplishment, my glorious 
unlocked achievements. 

"I'll get you out of this cell."

She looked grateful, but remained silent. I turned 
to the intercom box on the wall.

"Friend Computer. Please make all corridors 
between this cell and my personal cabin off 
limits, and recall any personnel currently on 
guard duty in those areas."

"Yes, captain."

I waited a few minutes, then waved my hand at 
the door. It opened. The guards outside were 
gone. 

"Follow me."

She stood up. The look of fear on her face broke 
my heart. I took her hand and tugged gently. She 
would not follow. Instead, she shook off my hand 
and took a step back.

"Would you rather stay in here ?"

"Will you kill me ?"

"I'm risking my life to help you, Katsumi. Please, 
trust me."

She nodded and followed me out the door, keeping a 
safe distance between the two of us.

"Friend Computer, lock the cell and do not allow 
anyone inside except for me."

We walked along the dark corridors. I always loved 
the dreadful atmosphere, but now I felt sad because 
Katsumi hated it. 

I was so tense that I barely remember our walk at 
all. It felt like mere seconds before we reached my 
cabin and I locked the door behind us. 

And now that I was alone in my cabin with Katsumi, 
I was even more tense than before.

"Phew. I really need a massage." I joked.

This is when I learned that I should never tell 
jokes around women. The hidden meaning of my 
sentence became obvious as soon as I said it, but 
it was already too late. Katsumi heard the 
translation in her headset, gasped, took a sudden 
step back and kept her back to the cabin wall, 
glancing around and looking for a way out.

"Sorry. This is not what I meant." I corrected. 

I sat down on my desk chair, leaving a fair 
distance between us. I looked away from her, 
focusing on the empty glass of whisky from the 
previous night. As a high-ranking officer, being 
intimidating came naturally, and I had to do my 
best to look as harmless as possible.

"Miss Ishimura. This is my first time speaking to 
a woman, let alone a woman from a different era. 
There will be misunderstandings. I apologise in 
advance. I will not kill you. I will not hurt you. 
I will not try to have sex with you. Unless you 
ask me to."

This is when I learned that I should never speak 
my mind in front of women. Of course she would be 
afraid, if a man like me told her flat out that I 
was interested in her ! I saw her shake her head 
push back even harder against the cold cabin wall. 
Still, I went on, stammering a bit.

"I... I will do my best to help you go back to 
your time. And if that's not possible, I will do 
my best to make you happy again. Please, trust me."

For a second, I wondered whether the Computer's 
translation worked correctly. Maybe all my 
sentences came out as "I eat babies." or "Let's not 
turn this rape into a murder." because that is 
certainly what her face looked like.

I stood up. She squirmed. I walked to the 
opposite end of the room, as far away from her as 
I could manage in my cramped cabin, and sat down 
on the floor. 

"I will stay here. Please, sit down."

She did. I felt relieved.

"What year did you come from ?"

"2016. November 3rd, 2016."

"And where ?"

"Tokyo."

The capitol of Japan, if I remembered correctly. 
I tried to think up of all the references to Tokyo, 
if only to bring us closer. 

"Like in [Kimi no Iru Machi](is a manga by) ? Or 
[Sekirei](is a manga by) ? Or [Nozoki Ana](is a 
manga by) ?"

She hesitated. 

"Yes. That Tokyo. Well, the second one has a 
different Tokyo, but it's the same idea. Can I... 
Can I ask you a question ?"

"Please do."

"You said it's been three centuries since my 
time. So, how can you know so much about 
obscure perverted manga from that era ?"

Ah, right. The first examples that came to mind 
were quite perverted. The reason was, of course, 
that most works from the Crisis era were forbidden, 
except for those that could be used as scenario 
templates. In other words, if it didn't involve 
space battles against aliens, it was out. But 
humans were humans, and forbidden knowledge was 
still available to those who were willing to risk 
their lives for it. Perverted knowledge just 
happened to be the most available. 

"It's... It's a hobby of mine. Please don't tell 
anyone."

Because that could get me killed.

"Can I ask another question ?"

She seemed a bit more confident now. Maybe she 
found my pathetic side reassuring ?

"Please ask as many as you want."

"Do you want to have sex with me ?"

"Yes !" I answered with a wide smile and a suave 
voice. She stood up with a shriek.

"Please... please don't." 

"I'm not... I'm not going to unless you want 
it too."

"But... but your friend said you killed people ! 
And you just brought me to your room..." She eyed 
the bunk bed and made a face. "And your hobby is 
perverted manga. You're a soldier, and this is the 
first time you've seen a woman since forever, and 
you do want to have sex with me. You're going to 
rape me !"

And just like that, my patience ran out.

"Katsumi, are you an idiot ?"

"What ?"

"If I wanted to rape you, why would I be sitting 
down here and politely answering your questions ?"

"To lull me into a false sense of security ?"

"What for ? I can use my arms to lull you into a 
real sense of not being able to escape."

"Please don't."

"Stop. Being. An. Idiot."

My standard issue "I am annoyed" face seemed to 
scare her even more. 

"Listen. I'm trying to help you here. Get you back 
to your own time. If you keep worrying about silly 
things like that, we're just going to waste our 
time."

"I understand."

"Sit down."

She did. Then, the entire Status Symbol moved, 
throwing around any unattended objects. I wore 
Stability Boots and most standard equipment on 
board was secured with magnetic stickers, so the 
only unattended item in my cabin was Katsumi. She 
flew around the room like a frog in an anti-gravity 
experiment. I did my best to catch her. I managed 
to get a hold of her when she thrust her knee into 
my stomach, and I keeled over to the ground on top 
of her.

She screamed. I did not have to wait for the 
computer to translate : I already knew from my 
hobby that women screamed "IIEEEH" when a man 
landed on top of them by accident. 
