That was the first time I had touched her like that. 
In retrospect, I regret not paying more attention to 
the softness of her breasts rubbing against my chest, 
or the warmth of her breath against my neck. In that 
moment, my mind was focused on a single question : 
who had ordered a hyperspace jump without my 
permission ? 

The answer was obvious. Bronsky was a coward. The 
jump had probably taken us to a district under direct 
Guild control. Even if I squashed his mutiny, I would 
have to submit to Guild investigators, and they would eventually find the stranded time-traveller on board.

I would not let that happen. 

"Friend Computer ! Download the Old Earth Japanese 
semantics to the Bronsky headset, and set both that 
headset and mine to autonomous mode."

"Yes, captain." 

I felt a push against my chest. I was still on top 
of her. I stood up as fast as I could. 

"Sorry."

She remained there, sprawled on the cabin floor, 
with her eyes closed. It hurt me to see how our 
first instance of physical contact made her feel.

"Please... be gentle." she said.

"Stop it. That was an accident. Stand up."

I turned my back to her. 

"Friend Computer, who ordered the hyperspace 
jump ?"

"The order was given by Lieutenant Captain Alex 
Bronsky."

"Where have we jumped to ?"

"To the Proxima Centauri system."

"Shit !" I shouted, and punched the wall. 

I heard Katsumi gasp. She was cowering in a 
corner again. I walked over to her, crouched, 
and took her hands. She tried to pull them 
away, but I would not let her.

"Listen, Katsumi. Bronsky betrayed both of us. 
He is going to hand you over to Empire 
bureaucrats. You are a stranded time traveller. 
They want to have you. They will keep you in a 
cell. You will undergo painful interrogation, and 
your body will be examined in detail. When 
they're done, if you're lucky, you will be kept 
as an exhibit in a museum. Do you want this to 
happen to you ?"

"No. I don't want that."

"I am the only one who wants to save you.
Will you trust me ?"

She stopped struggling and looked down.

"Yes. I'd rather be raped than have that happen 
to me."

"Stop it with the rape, already."

"S-Sorry."

"We need to escape. Follow me."

We ran outside. I would not let go of her hand 
even if it killed me. The dark corridors were 
empty. The crew hated them. If this was a mutiny, 
Bronsky was doing it wrong. No guards outside my 
cabin door ? No guards outside the nearest escape 
pod room ? Maybe he expected me to come screaming 
at him on the bridge ? Maybe he hoped I wouldn't 
notice the jump ?

I pushed Katsumi in an escape pod, locked her 
into her seat, and sat next to her. The cockpit 
door closed. I pressed a few buttons with 
satisfying beeps and boops, told her "Don't worry" 
(she did) and pulled the lever with the black and 
yellow stripes. 

We were tossed like salad, and the next thing we
saw was Proxima Centauri. A beautiful star. I
grew up with that star above my head. I had some
friends, down in the colonies. I could get some 
help, lie low for a few years. Maybe get married
to Katsumi. Wait. What kind of idiot am I ? I 
have to send her back to her time. I'll need to 
find someone I can trust. 

The escape pod floated away from the Status 
Symbol. They did not seem to notice us, or, if 
they had, they certainly did nothing to catch up 
with us. I set a course for the closest colony, 
ran a few checks, and finally sat back with a sigh. 

I expected Katsumi to be trembling in her seat. She 
turned out to be absolutely delighted. The stars 
were beautiful. The planets were tiny specks of 
light in the distance, except for one that looked 
like a small marble. I had been seeing things like 
these for years now, but this was her first time 
looking out the cockpit window at the poetic 
beauty of space.

"Isn't that romantic ?" I joked. "Wait. That was a 
joke. I didn't mean it like that."

"It is." she answered. "I wish my boyfriend was 
here."

"You'll get back to him in no time. I promise."

She smiled at me. 

"You might be a good man, after all."

I wanted to kiss her. That would have been bad. 
I just smiled at her instead. 

"You asked me how I knew so many perverted manga 
from your time. I guess that means you've read all
of them ?"

She blushed. 

"Please don't tell anyone."

"What's your favorite ?"

"[Blush DC](is a manga by)."

"Never heard of it."

"I'm... glad you haven't."

"Why ? What's it about ?"

"Never mind that. We're in the future, now. I 
guess I have a lot of catching up to do. Is 
[Bleach](is a manga by Kubo Tite) finished yet ?"

"I'm afraid it is. Most manga authors died during 
the Crisis."

"That was meant to be a joke. Everyone I knew 
should be dead by now, you know. What's this 
Crisis thing you've been mentioning ? Did 
something bad happen ?"

"Somehow, the Old Earth was attacked by aliens. 
It was the classic [War of the Worlds](is a book by 
Edgar Allan Poe) scenario : we couldn't fight back, 
but the enemy apparently died on their own. Never 
could find their bodies or tell what they looked 
like. But we managed to salvage their technology. 
We devised strong AIs, and hyperspace jumps, and 
gravity drives, and nano-materials... but we lost 
several billion people to the war. Took us a 
century to get back on our feet."

"When did that happen ?"

"Can't remember. Three centuries ago, I guess. 
Computer, what is the date of the Crisis in the 
Old Earth calendar ?"

The escape pod computer had a male voice, an 
annoying falsetto to be exact. 

"Crisis occured in Old Earth year 2016, on november 
3rd."

Katsumi opened her mouth, but could not say anything.

"The day you left." I said. "What's going on ?"

